all right so at the end of the last
video we added these private valve tag
statements to our main activity class
and also our download data class and I
want to talk now about the warning that
Android studio is giving us and we can
see the warnings by just hovering our
mouse over the download data class and
you can see that there's two warnings
that have popped up and we're going to
ignore the first one we know it's not
being used because we haven't written
the code to use it yet but the second
warning is the one that's of interest
here and that says that this async task
class should be static or leaks might
occur and generally it's not a good idea
to have any classes inside an activity
and that's especially true when an inner
class is something like an async task
that may be around and processing for a
long time a static nested class is fine
though now the difference is that an
inner class which is what we have here
holds a reference to the activity a
static nested class on the other hand
doesn't in fact it exists independently
of the class that it's nested in then
this thing is just a packaging
convenience to keep all the code in the
same place
now we're going to come back to that in
more detail because there's another app
where it's natural to use a nested class
and the explanation will then make more
sense so if you don't understand all
this at the moment don't worry we're
just going to accept Android studio
suggestion to make this class static so
the lightbulb that will appear will
actually click on this download data
over here to the left click on that now
it offers here the options down the
bottom to move to companion object which
is kotler's
equivalent of static I'm going to click
that option and at that point in time
you can see the codes been modified for
us and we've no longer got a warning or
at least not that particular morning
anyway now using an inner class doesn't
give a warning in Java and which is one
of the reasons why cotton code can often
be more robust all right so we can add
some logging now to these two functions
and see how the async task
behaves let's go ahead and do that so we
added some logging in our uncreate
method let's do it now for the two
functions in download data so firstly
for on post
let's do that one first we're gonna add
the tagging needle logging for that
after these super dot on post execute so
we're going to type the log dot d
parentheses tag then in double quotes
after a comma I'm just going to top on
post execute colon report parameter is
dollar dollar sign result so that's that
one and then also from the doing
background what I'm going to do is
delete the to do line and instead by we
were to do is add to that log D
parentheses again tag comma space and
then we had double quotes do in
background a little put starts with
they're going to top dollar left and
right curly braces and within the curly
braces p0 square bracket and zero so
basically zero in between square
brackets then we've got our right curly
brace as well then we'll also return
something here
we're going to return doing background
completed all right so currently out
doing background function doesn't do a
lot it just returns a message saying
doing background has completed and have
also printed out the first parameter so
you can see what happens when the doing
background functions called and
obviously yeah that's this code here on
line 29 so overall our async task isn't
doing very much at the moment but by
looking at the logcat we should be able
to get a good idea of when things are
being called now to run the task we just
need to create an instance of the
download data class and then call its
execute function we're going to do that
in oncreate so after the tag for the
logging rather for the uncreate core
message we're going to put it in there
so i'm going to type in val download
data is equal to in download data with a
capital D for downloading the capital D
for data and then parentheses
then I'm going to type download data dot
execute and in parentheses URL goes here
then can do another lock so log dot d
tag comma space double quotes on create
done okay so at this point now we should
be able to run the app and check log cat
to see what's happened so let's go ahead
and do that and we're just to look at
the emulator briefly so though it's not
going to have anything other than the
hello world which it show
all right there's the hello world with a
text view widget and the other title so
we want to look at our lock cat though
let's do that we'll open it up
and we can actually see the call here
when I've scored back at the top on
create called on create dumb doing
background starts with URL goes here
that the URL goes here was the argument
that we passed if you recall on line 17
and then we've got down here on post
parameter is doing background completed
I've also got some other stuff here as
well and that can look a bit horrible
with the logcat with all sorts of other
log entries getting in the way but we
can make it more readable by filtering
on the two tags that we're interested in
so to do that in the locate window you
want to make sure firstly that regex is
actually checked which it is here then
we just need to enter in the filter box
over here to the left if we enter
mainactivity and then the pipe character
and download data that gives us a better
view of the actual data now in case
you're wondering the pipe character or
vertical bar that means or so when i've
entered that in mainactivity then the
pipe character download data that means
basically show output with mainactivity
or download data in the actual text in
the end in the actual log entries
themselves so basically we're looking to
see that the log entries can contain
either the word mainactivity or download
data now by the way it's best to use
lower case only in that filter box
because if you use any capitals then you
actually have to match the tags exactly
okay so the first thing to note is that
uncreate finishes before doing
background starts i'm going create
called for the first one that uncreate
done then after that we can see that
quite clearly that doing background
starts with the URL goes here so it
takes Android a little while to set up
all the threading for the async task and
while it's doing that and one create
finished because it didn't have anything
else to do now if we had more code in
oncreate then doing background may well
have started before and create finished
but the important thing here is that
uncreate didn't wait for the background
task to finish and we can see then doing
background starting and the parameter it
received
the string as I mentioned URL goes here
that we passed when calling the execute
method doing background then performs
its task on a separate thread and it
doesn't take very long because it's not
really doing anything but when it
finishes it returns a string which was
the type that we specified us the third
parameter when we declared the async
task on line 22 yeah now the android
framework then takes over and cause the
on post execute method on the main
thread the parameter passed who on post
execute is the return value from doing
background and again we can see that in
the results here in the log kept
parameter is doing background completed
that's well on post execute if we have a
look at on post execute you can see that
that's where it's printing it out and
doing background returned doing
background completed and that's where
it's getting the the value to display
and on post execute so as you can see
Android takes care of the complexity of
multi-threading or we have to do to use
an async task is to define the task that
should be done in the background and
then then decide what to do with any
values returned when the task completes
now in the next video we'll get the
background task to actually download
some data by adding code to the doing
background method so I'll see you in
that next video